cycling has its own vocabulary a rich
lexicon built over time varied in color
and texture borrowing from many
languages a construct of metaphor
adjectives and plain odd sayings many of
which have become cliche one thing's for
sure they're all here to stay there so
here's DC ends handy guide to the top 10
most commonly used phrases and words in
cycling 10 fun
this short praise is most commonly used
in interviews by pro cyclist a handle
Akutan is used an agreement or an
approval or as a suffix to add emphasis
yeah and regardless of the nationality
of the speaker
it's normally delivered very subtle
Belgian accent and accompanied with a
shrug sure sure sure
aperture yeah for sure a prophecy for
sure
face for sure sure sure the rate of
speed or motion exactly roll off the
tongue of it that's exactly why we use
the word
turn boat in fact it's almost
exclusively the word that we use now to
describe the cyclists rhythm or speed
yeah so for example I'm just going to go
set this effort at tempo payment or you
just got a ride your own tempo or got
friendly setting a good tempo in fact
being the correct tempo to say the word
tempo which is tempo you're right oh
sorry but you haven't quite got it right
tempo all right so I've set tempo No
tempo tempo pretty sure it's tempo there
you go to the front I you set a good
tempo
all right I'm just going to just get a
right tempo for a bit like
this literally means hat in French and
is used in cycling the compliment as in
I took my hat to you yeah the use of
this millinery now has soared over
recent years and is particularly
embraced by the hipster fraternity
however it's also often used and good
humour of course by the cycling
community too good ride sigh laughs Oh
blown out sounds a little bit dramatic
doesn't it like there's been an
explosion or something well it's a term
used to describe being dropped from a
group whether in a race or just on a
ride but in a rather sudden most violent
way we're not just talking about losing
the we love it here we're on about
dropping the anchor and turning on the
reversing lights almost coming to a
standstill for gas or a block to give it
a French translation it's an oft used
phrase banding around by pros and the
rest of us to describe riding flat out
as fast as you can eyeballs out
absolutely nailing it most of what's the
plan guys for the ride today is in US
and drank wheeler our gas full gas or
any other suitable way you can think of
to describe the act of riding so fast
that your legs and cardiovascular system
a fit two weeks
oh yes
another classic race usually hurling
discourse between journalists and pro
cyclist it's normal is a strange device
use both to understate and emphasize
take for example Fabian Cancellara I
arrived at 54 kilometers an hour officer
for one hour but it's just becoming
normal for him it's also a really
versatile phrase you do see it for
forwards which is completely out of this
world just add in an extra word is not
normal not normal it's not the normal
cycling bag of Spanish is a
colloquialism
used to describe poor slovenly general
physical condition or state of fitness
and normally used in a self-referential
context so for example I'm going like an
absolute bag of Spanish lucidly or wear
like a bag of Spanish up that climb yeah
in some cases though it can be used as a
mild in offensive insults amongst
friends describe the slowest person in
the group so Dave example on this climb
we've been saying about math going like
a bag of Spanish origin to the term or
unknown anti-american friends as spanner
is a wrench going like a bag of wrenches
man on the rivet these three words heart
back to a bygone Halcyon era when
saddles were handcrafted in leather that
was fastened place by brass rivets to
the rear and tip of the saddle the
phrase on the rivet relates to the
forward position a rider adopts when
riding hard or is under pressure often
so far forward on the saddle that the
rider is sat right on the rivet at the
nose of the saddle without a shadow of a
doubt the most epically overused world
in cycling is epic it seems that
anything and everything is epic these
days absolutely this climb is epic but
this whole ride has been epic mate and
that view that view is epic
yeah laughter your use of the word epic
even that was it
yeah those epic Annette I'll tell you
what can we make this bit look really
epic when you like stick it in black and
white making very grainy yeah that's
holy epic okay
yes of course there are loads more words
and phrases used in the world of cycling
don't be afraid to tell us that we got
this completely wrong leave your
suggestions in the comment section below
this video and to watch our other videos
how to be a gentleman or gentle lady
cyclist click up there and are cycling
etiquette video click down there and to
subscribe to the channel just click on
us ten five hey you know a school gotta
let's go get home right now that's
temper
cool get its temper your outlook